#summary This page is created for issues 60 to define some test specs.

[#OSDE_0.2.8]

=Introduction=

There are three general operation systems to test. <br />
Windows XP, Windows Vista and Linux.<br />
See issues <a href="http://code.google.com/p/opensocial-development-environment/issues/detail?id=49">49</a>, <a href="http://code.google.com/p/opensocial-development-environment/issues/detail?id=50">50</a>, <a href="http://code.google.com/p/opensocial-development-environment/issues/detail?id=51">51</a>.

This page is used to describe what items need to test.<br />
You should define items here before test, <br />
or test by items described here to be familiar with OSDE.

Moreover, you can write anything should test but not described here,<br />
or even any improvement on next generation OSDE if you're responsible for it.

= OSDE 0.2.8 =

[#Windows_XP]<br />
[#Windows_Vista]<br />
[#Linux]

== Windows XP==

===Common features that will be Implemented and Tested for OSDE 0.2.8 release===

  * A built in Shindig server for local testing and debugging.
  * An integrated database based on the Java H2 for storing and managing social data.
  * Simple project and gadget code generation wizards to quickly generate your [http://code.google.com/intl/zh-TW/apis/opensocial/ OpenSocial] application projects and application code.
  * A multi-paned gadget spec editor that facilitates productive gadget development.
  * A new "[http://code.google.com/intl/zh-TW/apis/opensocial/ OpenSocial]" Eclipse perspective that provides enhanced editing and debugging with easy access and control of the local Shindig and social database.
  * An [http://code.google.com/intl/zh-TW/apis/opensocial/ OpenSocial] REST Java client wizard that can quickly generate a new project along with sample code that uses the [http://code.google.com/intl/zh-TW/apis/opensocial/ OpenSocial] RESTful Java client library to connect to the local [http://code.google.com/intl/zh-TW/apis/opensocial/ OpenSocial] server.

=== Related documentation. ===

  * <a href="http://wiki.opensocial.org/index.php?title=OSDE_Tutorial">OSDE Tutorial</a>
  * <a href="http://code.google.com/p/opensocial-development-environment/w/list">OSDE Wiki</a>
  
=== Test Identification (Test Areas) ===  

  * Installation
  * Building a Simple OpenSocial App in OSDE
  * Running an OpenSocial app in OSDE
  * Creating a Java RESTful Client Project
  
=== Test Cases Detail/Procedure ===  

_TODO: common test specs is not finished_
<table border="1" cellspacing="0">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="6">
                Installation
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Test Id</td>
            <td>Test Item</td>
            <td>Input Spec</td>
            <td>Output Spec</td>
            <td>Env needs</td>
            <td>Dependencies/ Notes</td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>installation_01</td>
            <td>Show OSDE menus</td>
            <td>
                # Download OSDE 0.2.8 plugin library
                # Copy OSDE 0.2.8 library to eclipse plugin folder
                # Restart eclipse
            </td>
            <td>
                # Show OSDE menu bar and items
                # Show OSDE tree node in Preference
                # Show OSDE tree node in New Project
            </td>
            <td>
                # Windows XP
                # Eclipse for RCP/Plug-in Developers Build id: 20090619-0625
            </td>
            <td>&nbsp;</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

== Windows Vista ==
_TODO: test spec in windows vista_

== Linux ==
_TODO: test spec in linux_