=Roadmap for OSDE=

The following plans are Road map we think.

==v0.2==

This version is a current stream. Supporting !OpenSocial Specification 0.8.1.

===v0.2.9===

 * Purpose: Minor version up.
 * This version will not be released. Because the new version 0.3.0 is released prior.

==v0.3==

This version is a next major version, and will be supported !OpenSocial Specification 0.9.

===v0.3.0===

 * Purpose: First major version up. Supporting OS 0.9 (integrating Shindig 1.1).
 * Release date: 2009-09-19 or 20
 * Supported features and fixed issues:
  * Supporting OS 0.9 (Issue #33)
  * A bug about add Relationship (Issue #71)
  * Can't execute the gadget in a sub folder (Issue #73)
  * Subversion committing problem (Issue #75)
  * Removing the legacy of h2-library (Issue #81)

===v0.3.1 (CURRENT RELEASE)===

 * Purpose: Fix some issues.
 * Release date: 2009-11-16
 * Fixed issues:
  * Check for valid author_email format when creating a new OSDE project (Issue #152)
  * 'Building workspace' has encountered a problem - Eclipse couldn't refresh the "target" directory (Issue #156)
  * 'Building workspace' has encountered a problem. Errors occured during the build. (Issue #157)

==v0.5==

This version covers:
 * (DONE) (owner=albert) Preview gadgets on at least one container (Issue 39).
 * (DONE) (owner=albert) Publish gadgets on at least one container (Issue 154).

Expected release date: 2009-12-05

==v0.7==

This version covers:
 * (IN PROGRESS) (owner=albert) Manage gadgets on at least one container (Issue 155).
 * (owner=yoichiro) Rename package name to com.googlecode.osde (Issue 158).
 * (owner=ChingYiChan) The configuration to change the port number of Jetty (Issue 104).
 * (owner=TBD) The HAS_APP filter (Issue 106).
 * (owner=TBD) New editor for gadget xml files - code highlighting for OS API and templates (Issue 159).

Expected release date: 2009-12-20
==v0.9==

This version covers:
 * (owner=albert) Gadget Checker (Issue 47).
 * (owner=dolphin) Latency Reduction Tools - Evaluator for web performance (Issue 127).
 * (owner=dolphin) Latency Reduction Tools - JS Compiler (Issue 180).
 * (owner=TBD) New editor for gadget xml files - code completion for OS API and templates (Issue 160).
 * (owner=TBD) Gadget Translation (Issue 46).
 * (owner=TBD) Support Shindig v1.1 (beta 3).

Expected release date: 2010-01-15

==v1.0==

Milestone release

Expected release date: 2010-02-15